<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>9. Assessing Risks </title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2>9. Assessing Risks</h2>

<p>Address potential risks before commencing your operation in order to:</p>

<ul>
	<li>protect you and your colleagues from harm,</li>
	<li>ensure the safety of any victims,</li>
	<li>ensure the safety of your suspects, and</li>
	<li>ensure that your investigation is not hindered.</li>
</ul>

<p>For migrant smuggling, consider the following:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Is anyone in immediate danger? This may include migrants, friends or relatives of the migrants.</li>
	<li>Are there any outstanding presumed victims?</li>
	<li>Have the smugglers or traffickers used or threatened violence?</li>
	<li>The migrants may also pose a medical risk, be injured or traumatized, so you will need to address potential risks to their health and welfare.</li>
	<li>You will also need to ensure that you protect the identity of victims. Do not subjugate them to further undue distress by exposing them to the media.</li>
</ul>

<p>When planning an operation, complete a risk assessment table to prioritize which risks need the greatest attention and what measures can be taken to reduce the levels of the risks.</p>

<ol>
	<li>What is the hazard?</li>
	<li>What is the likelihood of the hazard causing harm? low (1) to high (10)</li>
	<li>How severe are the consequences? low (1) to high (10)</li>
	<li>What is the greatness of the risk? (Multiply the LIKELIHOOD by the SEVERITY)</li>
	<li>How can the risks be mitigated?</li>
</ol>

<p>&#160;</p>


</body></html>