<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>4. Managing Informants </title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2>4. Managing Informants</h2>

<p>An informant is a person who secretly provides information to law enforcement agencies.</p>

<p>Informants may have different motives for giving information, including for money, for revenge, to eliminate competition, to boost their ego or for goodwill.</p>

<p><strong>When meeting an informant:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>Make an official record of the meeting</li>
	<li>Meet in a safe, pre-determined location</li>
	<li>Identify a safe route to and from the meeting place</li>
	<li>Develop a cover story for you and the informant in case you are seen meeting together</li>
	<li>Have another officer present during the meeting</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>When communicating with an informant:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>Develop nicknames for each other</li>
	<li>Use a new phone or SIM card that cannot be traced or used for any other purpose</li>
	<li>Develop rules and procedures for contacting each other</li>
	<li>Ensure the informant tells no one about assisting you</li>
	<li>Avoid meeting at offices, police stations, bars, etc.</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Remember:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>Abide by your agency’s standard operating procedures on informant handling.</li>
	<li>Do not disclose the identity of the informant to anyone who does not need to know.</li>
	<li>Maintain a professional relationship with the informant. The informant is not your friend.</li>
	<li>The informant’s safety is paramount, so develop contingency plans.</li>
	<li>Stay in control of the informant.</li>
	<li>Be available when the informant needs you.</li>
</ul>


</body></html>