<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide04/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>20. Searching People</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>20. Searching People</h3>

    <p>Extra care needs to be taken when searching people to ensure the safety of the officers conducting the search,
        of the suspect being searched and to prevent the disposal of evidence.</p>

    <p><strong>Before the search:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Inform the suspect of the reason for the search, of the powers you are using to conduct the search and of
            their legal rights.</li>
        <li>Ask the suspect if they are armed or in possession of something that may harm himself/herself or others.</li>
        <li>Check the area around you for evidence or items that the suspect may have discarded or may use to harm
            himself/ herself or others.</li>
        <li>Have another officer present during the search.</li>
        <li>Have a female officer search female suspects.</li>
        <li>If not accompanied by another officer, secure the suspect, especially if the suspect is prone to being
            violent.</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>During the search:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>If possible, conduct the search in a quiet area away from direct public view.</li>
        <li>Search the suspect systematically from head to foot, covering all areas including inside the suspect’s
            mouth.</li>
        <li>Remove outer items of clothing, such as hats, gloves, belts, shoes, from the suspect to search the items
            more thoroughly.</li>
        <li>Gently feel clothing for objects as you search.</li>
        <li>When searching, avoid standing or crouching directly in front of the suspect.</li>
        <li>Pat pockets and ask the suspect if the pockets contain harmful objects before putting your hand in the
            pockets.</li>
        <li>Put any found objects aside for later examination or seizure.</li>
        <li>Search bags separately after completing the search of the suspects.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>If you are armed, keep your firearm away from the suspect while searching.</p>

    <p>Have a colleague present during the search.</p>

    <p>When searching, avoid standing or crouching directly in front of the suspect.</p>

    <p>Your colleague should watch you searching to observe the suspect’s movements or if the suspect discards
        evidence.</p>

    <p>Watch the suspect for any signs of aggression.</p>

    <p>Watch the suspect’s hands.</p>

    <p>If a more thorough search is required, such as a strip search or internal examination, then follow your agency’s
        guidelines in relation to these more intrusive searches and gender considerations.</p>

    <p>Identifying Victims of Human Trafficking</p>

    <p>Before conducting an in-depth interview, use your agency’s screening tool to carefully question and identify
        whether or not the person is a victim of human trafficking.</p>

    <p>Sample interview questions for human trafficking suspects and victims can be found in the UNODC Field Guide for
        Frontline Officers on Smuggling of Migrants and Human Trafficking.</p>

</body>

</html>