<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide04/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>13. Identifying Imposters</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>13. Identifying Imposters</h3>

    <p>As the security features of travel documents get more complex and harder to replicate, many criminals and
        terrorists are opting to use legitimate documents and purporting to be the person shown in the document.</p>

    <p>To detect imposters, divide the face into parts and undertake a systematic examination of the following six
        parts.</p>

    <ol>
        <li><strong>The eyes</strong> – These are the most expressive part of the face. Check the distance between the
            eyes, and look for different types of eye lids.</li>
        <li><strong>The ears</strong> – These are as unique as fingerprints and are one of the easiest ways to detect
            an imposter. There are 3 main points for comparison: the helix (a), the tragus (b) and the lobe (c).</li>
        <li><strong>The nose</strong> – Check the length, width, nostril size and shape of the nose. Check for
            irregularities of the nose, i.e. signs of having been broken.</li>
        <li><strong>The mouth and lips</strong> – Look at the shape and size of the lips. Look at the distance between
            the lower lip and chin and the distance between the nose and upper lip.</li>
        <li><strong>The shape of the face</strong> – What type of face is depicted in the photograph: round, square or
            oval? Look at the cheek bones, jaw bone and chin.</li>
        <li><strong>Look for any identifying features</strong>, such as scars, marks or moles.</li>
    </ol>

    <p>Remember to familiarise yourself with the person prior to looking at the document.</p>

    <p><strong>Secondary Identification</strong></p>

    <p>If you are unsure about the identity of a passport holder, ask him/ her to provide a secondary source of
        identification, such as:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>National identity card</li>
        <li>Drivers licence</li>
        <li>Credit card</li>
        <li>Medical insurance card</li>
    </ul>

</body>

</html>