<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>11. Technical Surveillance </title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2>11. Technical Surveillance</h2>

<p>With lawful authority, the following technical surveillance options can provide crucial evidence and intelligence.</p>

<p><strong>Video Surveillance</strong><br />
Video cameras allow you to collect visual evidence and intelligence. Images can be collected by:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Closed circuit television cameras (CCTV)</li>
	<li>Cameras that can monitor the subject from afar, sending images remotely</li>
	<li>Handheld cameras in observation posts, on foot or within a vehicle</li>
	<li>Body-worn cameras to covertly record meetings</li>
	<li>Mobile phone cameras used covertly</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Listening Devices</strong><br />
Listening devices allow you to covertly monitor conversations. They can be installed in places where suspects will have discussions, including vehicles, vessels, premises and public places. The signal of the device can be picked up by radio or sent via phone lines.</p>

<p>Listening devices can be worn covertly by undercover officers and informants.</p>

<p><strong>Phone Interception</strong><br />
Phone interceptions also allow you to covertly monitor conversations. Monitoring phone conversations usually requires special authority and liaison with the telecommunications provider.</p>

<p><strong>Intercepting Online Communications</strong><br />
The ability to monitor emails, chats, social networks, online banking, and online voice calls (such as Skype, LINE, Viber) usually requires special authority and liaison with the service provider. It may also require installing a device inside the suspect’s computer.</p>

<p><strong>Controlled Delivery</strong><br />
Controlled deliveries are a useful technique allowing you to monitor the movement of illicit goods and may help to identify the destination of contraband and people involved in trafficking. However, for ethical reasons and the primary concern of the safety of actual and potential victims, controlled delivery is not appropriate in cases of trafficking in persons or smuggling of migrants.</p>

<p>You should never conduct a controlled delivery of migrants.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>


</body></html>