<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide04/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>14. Preserving a Crime Scene</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>14. Preserving a Crime Scene</h3>

    <p>As the first officer at a crime scene, you should take immediate steps to preserve the scene and protect
        evidence from weather or from contamination.</p>

    <ol>
        <li>Ensure that no one is hurt and that all suspects have been secured.</li>
        <li>Create a cordon around the scene. A safe bet is to identify what you think is a large enough area, and then
            double it. It is easier to reduce the size of a crime scene than to expand it.</li>
        <li>Keep crowds or the media out of the crime scene. Establish a crime scene log of anyone entering or leaving
            the scene and their reasons for doing so.</li>
        <li>Mark out a ‘safe route’ to allow access to the scene, avoiding any paths that may have been used by the
            suspect.</li>
        <li>If you have to process the scene, take many photographs.</li>
        <li>Make notes of your actions at the scene. Note what you see, hear, touch and, if necessary, smell.</li>
    </ol>

    <ul>
        <li>Do not allow unnecessary or unauthorised people into the scene.</li>
        <li>Consider how to preserve the scene to prevent weather damage.</li>
        <li>Beware of safety hazards at the scene, such as diseases.</li>
    </ul>

</body>

</html>