<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide04/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>10. Surveillance</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h2>10. Surveillance</h2>

    <p>Watching suspects can be a very useful way of gathering intelligence and evidence of a crime. The main types of
        surveillance you might use are as follows.</p>

    <p><strong>Mobile</strong><br />
        Good for covering distances and when the suspect is using a vehicle. Use several vehicles to follow the
        suspect. Use nondescript vehicles of different makes, models and colors. Rotate vehicles to avoid overexposure.
        Use two officers per car. Motorbikes are useful, too.</p>

    <p><strong>Marine</strong><br />
        When following vessels, use navy or marine police vessels or aircraft that have the ability to track vessels
        from a long distance away. Use unmarked or nondescript boats to get closer to the targeted vessel. You may also
        be able to watch vessels from the shore using a combination of mobile, foot or static surveillance methods.</p>

    <p><strong>Foot</strong><br />
        Good for following suspects who are walking or using public transport. Allows you to get closer to the suspect
        and observe their actions, meetings or hear conversations. Use at least three officers where possible. Rotate
        your positions to avoid being noticed.</p>

    <p><strong>Static</strong><br />
        Good for watching fixed locations like ports, houses, businesses or areas where a specific crime occurs. Use
        two officers. Be careful entering and leaving an observation post to avoid being compromised. If no buildings
        are available, use a vehicle or other hideout.</p>

    <p><strong>Technical</strong><br />
        Good for providing real-time locations of suspects. Use covert cameras and tracking and listening devices to
        monitor suspects remotely, if you are lawfully entitled to use them.</p>

    <p><strong>Safety first:</strong> Donʼt put yourself at risk. Use sufficient officers and vehicles to avoid being
        compromised. Make sure your equipment is charged and ready for use.</p>

    <p><strong>Remember:</strong> Itʼs better to lose the suspect than to compromise the investigation.</p>

</body>

</html>