<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide04/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>12. Travel Documents </title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>12. Travel Documents</h3>

    <p>To legally enter a country, migrants will need to produce travel documentation, such as passports and visas.
        Examine travel documents to determine if they are authentic or counterfeit, fraudulently obtained or are being
        used by an imposter.</p>

    <p>Documents can be examined in three ways:</p>

    <ul>
        <li><strong>Visual examination</strong> – no equipment necessary</li>
        <li><strong>Using basic equipment</strong> – using a magnifying glass or ultraviolet light</li>
        <li><strong>Specialist examination</strong> – using specialist equipment in a laboratory</li>
    </ul>

    <p>In the field you may only have access to basic equipment to conduct the examination, so you should focus on some
        of the basic security features, which include:</p>

    <p><strong>Watermarks</strong><br />
        Can you see the watermark by holding the document to a light or using transmitted light?</p>

    <p><strong>Professional Assembly</strong><br />
        Passports are made professionally using advanced production techniques. Does the document appear professionally
        constructed? Is it well bound?</p>

    <p><strong>Photos</strong><br />
        Check for signs of photograph substitution on the bio page and visas containing the document holder’s details.</p>

    <p><strong>Printing Quality</strong><br />
        Passports are produced using industrial printing methods that create solid lines and solid colours. Home or
        laser printers use a mix of four colours to simulate real colour, appearing as a series of dots or dashes under
        a magnifying glass.</p>

    <p><strong>UV Dead Paper</strong><br />
        Most secure documents, including passports, use paper that does not react to UV light. Most photocopy paper has
        a brightener added which reacts to UV light. The passport paper should not glow. Only the security markings
        should glow.</p>

    <p>To access the latest examples of country-specific passports and visas, go to www.edisontd.net</p>

</body>

</html>